---
layout: post
title:  "Pokésummary Version 2"
date:   2022-05-24
---

This past week, I made some technical changes to Pokésummary, my command-line Python program.
The biggest change was in how the program stores Pokémon data in memory.

## Some background
Pokésummary version 1 consisted of three modules:
`__main__.py`, which contained the logic for reading Pokémon data into memory and handled the command-line interface;
`displaying.py`, which handled displaying Pokémon summaries;
and `parsing.py`, which contained a utility function for reading `csv` files into dictionaries.
I was unsatisfied with this structure--I didn't like how `__main__.py`
violated the single responsibility principle.

Additionally, I wasn't happy with how I stored Pokémon data in memory.
In version 1, I used dictionaries;
these dictionaries were generated by the function in `parsing.py`.
Since the function needed to work for both my Pokémon stats dataset and my type defenses grid,
the output dictionaries' keys were given by the input dataset's column names.
As a result, in `displaying.py`, I had to have the dictionary keys hard-coded as the dataset column names.

Here is how I printed out a Pokemon's name and classification in version 1:
```python
print(
    f"{Color.BOLD}{Color.UNDERLINE}{pokemon_name.upper()}, "
    f"{pokemon_stats['classification'].upper()}{Color.END}"
)
```
Since the column name for Pokémon classifications in the dataset is
"classification", I had to use that string as my dictionary key.
This was also true for any other column.
The result was that I was tied down to that one dataset format;
to switch to a different dataset,
I would've needed to change everything in `displaying.py`.

## The model-view-controller design pattern
